Async Batch Docs (#9216)
medplum/medplum: packages/docs/docs/fhir-datastore/processing-async-bundles.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Processing Asynchronous Bundles

> Medplum can process a FHIR **batch** `Bundle` in the background when you ask for the [asynchronous request pattern](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/async-bundle.html). The HTTP request returns **`202 Accepted`** immediately with a **status URL**; you poll that URL until the job finishes, reading an **`AsyncJob`** on each response. When the job succeeds, you download the **`batch-response`** payload from a linked **`Binary`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Medplum can process a FHIR **batch** `Bundle` in the background when you ask for the [asynchronous request pattern](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/async-bundle.html). When the batch request includes the `Prefer: respond-async` HTTP header, the server will respond immediately with a **`202 Accepted`** status code and a **status URL** in the `Content-Location` response header.  You should poll that URL until the job finishes, reading the status of the **`AsyncJob`** resource tracking the operation on each response. When the job succeeds, you can download the resulting **`batch-response`** Bundle payload from a linked **`Binary`** resource.
```

- **Long-running work** — Work continues in a worker after the client receives `202 Accepted`, so you are not tied to a single HTTP request’s lifetime.

Avoid async when:

- **Callers need the `batch-response` immediately** — Data is committed only as the job runs; until then, treat the system as “in progress.”
- **You require a synchronous `transaction`** — Async **transaction** bundles are rejected when the `transaction-bundles` project feature is enabled (see [Limitations](#limitations)).

## Step-by-step: submit, poll, read results

### 1. Build a batch `Bundle`

Same rules as a normal batch: `resourceType: "Bundle"`, `type: "batch"`, and one `entry` per operation. Details and examples live in [FHIR Batch Requests](/docs/fhir-datastore/fhir-batch-requests).

### 2. `POST` the bundle to the FHIR base URL with `Prefer: respond-async`

> Issue a `POST` to your FHIR base (for example `https://api.medplum.com/fhir/R4` — with or without a trailing slash, matching your client) with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issue a `POST` to your FHIR base URL (for example `https://api.medplum.com/fhir/R4`) with:
```

- `Content-Type: application/fhir+json`
- `Authorization: Bearer …`

> - **`Prefer: respond-async`** (Medplum treats the header name case-insensitively)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Prefer: respond-async`**
```

Example:

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.medplum.com/fhir/R4' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/fhir+json" \
  -H "Prefer: respond-async" \
  -d @my-bundle.json
```

### 3. Read `202 Accepted` and the status URL

A successful enqueue returns:

- **HTTP `202 Accepted`**

> - A small **`OperationOutcome`** body whose first issue’s **`diagnostics`** field is the absolute URL of the status endpoint (mirrors the **`Content-Location`** response header)

Reviewer: I think an example of the JSON output would be good here

> Save that URL — it is the polling location for the rest of the workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save that URL: it is the polling location for the rest of the workflow.
```

### 4. Poll `GET …/fhir/R4/job/{id}/status`

Medplum exposes the [FHIR asynchronous status interaction](https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/async-bundle.html) at:

```http
GET [base]/fhir/R4/job/{job-id}/status
```

Behavior:

| HTTP status | `AsyncJob.status` (typical) | Meaning |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `202` | `accepted` (or still in progress) | Keep polling after a short backoff. |
| `200` | `completed` | Job finished successfully; inspect `AsyncJob.output` for the results pointer. |
| `200` | `error` | Job failed; `output` usually contains an `outcome` or error details. |

> **FHIR quota:** These status reads are intentionally inexpensive and **do not count against FHIR interaction quota**, so you can poll while a large job runs without burning your per-minute interaction budget.

Reviewer: This isn't true anymore

**Cancellation:** While the job is still `accepted`, you can cancel with `DELETE` on the same status URL (FHIR async pattern). You can also use [`AsyncJob/$cancel`](/docs/api/fhir/operations/asyncjob-cancel) on the underlying `AsyncJob` id if you prefer the operation endpoint.

### 5. Load the completed `AsyncJob`

On success, `GET` the status URL returns **`200`** with an **`AsyncJob`** whose `status` is `completed`. The interesting data is in `output`:

- A **`Parameters`** resource
- A parameter named **`results`** whose value is a **`Reference`** to a **`Binary`**

> That `Binary` holds the full **`batch-response`** `Bundle` as FHIR JSON (the same shape you would have received from a synchronous batch).

Reviewer: This could be a bit confusing, since it's not really a separate step: this is the terminating condition of the previous step.  I would split the content here into bullets 4 and 6 above and below

### 6. `GET` the `Binary` and parse the response bundle

Use the `reference` from `output` (for example `Binary/abc`). Depending on `Accept`, Medplum may return either the **`Binary` resource** as JSON (with base64 `data`) or the **decoded file bytes** (for FHIR JSON results, that payload is the `batch-response` document).

```bash
curl 'https://api.medplum.com/fhir/R4/Binary/abc' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" \

>   -H "Accept: application/fhir+json"

Reviewer: What is this `Accept` header for?  Does anything bad happen if it's removed?

```

> If you receive a `Binary` resource, base64-decode `data` and parse the JSON as a `Bundle` with `type: "batch-response"`. If the server returns raw bytes, parse them directly as that bundle.

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense to me, and might need more explanation: when would they receive a Binary resource JSON back from this call?

:::note[MedplumClient `executeBatch`]

`MedplumClient.executeBatch()` is typed to return a response `Bundle` and does not yet implement built-in polling for `202` + `AsyncJob`. For async batches, use `fetch`, `MedplumClient.post` with manual handling of `202`, or your own helper until the SDK adds first-class support.

:::

## Rate limits and quotas

- **FHIR interaction load (quota points)** — Asynchronous batch processing is the recommended way to run **large** batches without consuming your normal per-minute FHIR interaction quota. See the overview in [Rate limits — Avoiding quota with async batch requests](/docs/rate-limits#avoiding-quota-with-async-batch-requests).
- **HTTP request rate limits** — Global per-IP [request rate limits](/docs/rate-limits#total-requests-rate-limit) still apply to each HTTP call (the initial `POST`, every poll, and the `Binary` read). Plan backoff on polls to stay well under those caps.

## Access control

Ensure the caller’s [access policies](/docs/access/access-policies) allow:

- Creating and reading the enqueued **`AsyncJob`**
- Reading the outcome **`Binary`** that stores the `batch-response`

> If either is blocked, polling or downloading results will fail with **403/404** even though the job ran.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If either is blocked, polling or downloading results will fail with an HTTP **403/404** error status even though the job ran.
```
